# Configuring SendNotification Activities

The Send Notification activity notifies workflow participants of information regarding their assigned tasks. When a notification is sent through this activity, the assigned participants will receive a notification in Profisee FastApps portal, as well as through their associated email address.

To configure a Send Notification activity:

1. Open the [Workflow Configuration](https://support.profisee.com/wikis/profiseeplatform/configuring_workflows) window for a registered workflow.
2. Navigate to the **Details** tab.
3. Select the Notification activity you want to configure.

#### Activity Field

The activity field displays the version of Profisee FastApps Studio in which the workflow was created. If the workflow was imported from a different version than the version of Profisee you are running, the workflow process may encounter errors. If the Assembly Version is a higher version than the instance of Profisee you are running, it is recommended you upgrade the platform before continuing.

If desired, a user can add a description to the task that will be displayed to the workflow participants in their notifications.

#### Task Assignment Field

4. Select a value under the dropdown menu for Notification Timing.
*The Notification Timing defines how quickly notifications are sent for this task once a specific task assignment is made.*

- *If set to **Immediate**, notifications are sent to participants when the task assignment is created.*
- *If set to **Never**, no notifications are sent to participants.*
- *If set to **Digest**, notifications are sent to participants at regular intervals. The length of this interval is controlled by the Notification Interval setting in System Settings. For more information, see [Configure Notifications](https://support.profisee.com/wikis/profiseeplatform/system_settings_notification).*

5. Select **User Assignment** and click the ellipsis icon to open the User Assignment window.
6. Select accounts from the Available Users field and use the Add arrow to move them into the Selected Users field.
7. Click **OK** to apply changes to User Assignment.
8. Click **Save** to apply changes to the activity.

## Customize the Email Notification Format

Task notification formats are the templates Profisee uses to create email notifications for participants when they have workflow tasks requiring action. Profisee Server includes text and HTML versions of two types of notification emails:

- **Digest**

Tasks are collected over a set time interval (defined by the **Notification Interval**, under [System Settings](https://support.profisee.com/wikis/profiseeplatform/view_system_settings) > Notification > Digest Notification). A single email message is sent containing notifications received for the user since the last notification interval expired. The number of detail rows included in a single digest message is limited by the **Profisee Notification Digest Number** (also under System Settings > Notification > Digest Notification). This value defaults to 100. This setting prevents Profisee from sending excessively large emails to workflow participants.
- **Immediate**

Whenever a task is generated by a workflow, a notification email is sent to the participant without any delay for the specific notification being triggered by the workflow.

## Locating the Default Notification Template Settings

The default templates for these emails are included under [System Settings](https://support.profisee.com/wikis/profiseeplatform/view_system_settings) > Notification > Email Notification Templates. The settings controlling these templates are:

- HTML digest notification
- Text digest notification
- HTML immediate notification
- Text immediate notification

For more information on using the settings, see [Edit System Settings](https://support.profisee.com/wikis/profiseeplatform/edit_system_settings).

## Editing the Default Notification Templates

You can edit the contents of any of these settings to create your own custom notification emails. The default HTML notification text and markup can be copied to an HTML editor, edited, and then copied back to the relevant setting. The text forms can be edited directly in System Settings, or with any text editor.

Notification emails use several well-defined placeholders where information from the server is substituted to provide personalization of the notification and to make the email more informative. Consider including these strings if you choose to edit the notification formats:

- **[Steward Name]**

The name of the user receiving the email notification (used in both digest and immediate notification emails)
- **[Detail Rows]**

In the HTML versions, a table displaying Information about a notification. Each row contains the following information:

There is one [Detail Rows] placeholder per task in a notification email. The [Detail Rows] string is used in both immediate and digest notification emails. In a digest notification, there can be many [Detail Rows] placeholder in the email.

- The type of notifications (Contribute, Approve, or Notice). Contribute and Approve notifications are triggered by task assignments. A Notice is simply a message indicating an event of interest that can be sent by a workflow.
- The entity involved in the task
- The code of the initiating member
- The version of the data containing the member
- The model associated to the member
- **[Notification Count]**

The total number notifications received in the digest interval
- **[Max Detail Count]**

The maximum number of notifications to include in a single digest notification email. This number is controlled by the Profisee notification digest number under [System Settings](https://support.profisee.com/wikis/profiseeplatform/view_system_settings) > Notification > Digest Notification
- **[Summary Rows]**

A total of each type of notification (Approval, Contributyion, and Notification) in a single digest notification email